https://rmrj.usjr.edu.ph/rmrj/index.php/RMRJ/article/view/245
Social Media Character Assessment for Talent Selection using Natural Language Processing
| Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal
Skip to main content
Skip to main navigation menu
Skip to site footer
Open Menu
Home
Register
Current
Archives
About
About the Journal
Author Guidelines
Editorial Team
Publication Ethics and Malpractice
Open Access and Copyright Policy
Submissions
Contact
Announcements
Search
Register
Login
Home
/
Archives
/
Vol. 5 No. 1 (2017)
/
Articles
Social Media Character Assessment for Talent Selection using Natural Language Processing
Authors
Jovelyn Cuizon
University of San Jose - Recoletos
Kent Ferolino
DOI:
https://doi.org/10.32871/rmrj1705.01.02
Keywords:
social media analytics, 											text mining, 											NLP
Abstract
This study aims to use social media data as corpus to assess person’s character to provide a preliminary background check on job seekers. It will provide recruiters an initial assessment of the candidates as well as supplementary information to support traditional recruitment and talent acquisition activities thereby reducing time and cost spent for character investigation. The application uses social media analytics to assign a social profile score. Unstructured text data are preprocessed to include only keywords which are relevant to the analysis. Word sense disambiguation is applied to determine the underlying meaning of the words. The bag-of-word is then checked for occurrence of associated words defined for each factor. Posts containing at least one occurrence of words associated with the factors are further tested for content polarity. Social character score is computed using proposed formula. The system recommends applicants based on skills and uses social character score for relevancy ranking of candidates relative to the job posts.
Downloads
PDF
Published
2017-10-11
How to Cite
Cuizon, J., & Ferolino, K. (2017). Social Media Character Assessment for Talent Selection using Natural Language Processing. Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal, 5(1). https://doi.org/10.32871/rmrj1705.01.02
More Citation Formats
ACM
ACS
APA
ABNT
Chicago
Harvard
IEEE
MLA
Turabian
Vancouver
Download Citation
Endnote/Zotero/Mendeley (RIS)
BibTeX
Issue
Vol. 5 No. 1 (2017)
Section
Articles
License
Copyright of the Journal belongs to the University of San Jose-Recoletos
Similar Articles
Dennis V. Madrigal,
Enrique G. Oracion,
Rethinking Catholic Education: Experiences of Teachers of a Catholic University
,
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal: Vol. 6 No. 1 (2018)
You may also start an advanced similarity search for this article.
Information
For Readers
For Authors
For Librarians
Make a Submission
Make a Submission
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal Copyright @2017
Center for Policy, Research, and Development Studies
Contact Number: 032-2537900 loc. 244
Email: recoletos_journal@usjr.edu.ph
Print ISSN: 2423-1398
Online ISSN: 2408-3755