https://rmrj.usjr.edu.ph/rmrj/index.php/RMRJ/issue/view/25
Vol. 7 No. 2 (2019)
| Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal
Skip to main content
Skip to main navigation menu
Skip to site footer
Open Menu
Home
Register
Current
Archives
About
About the Journal
Author Guidelines
Editorial Team
Publication Ethics and Malpractice
Open Access and Copyright Policy
Submissions
Contact
Announcements
Search
Register
Login
Home
/
Archives
/
Vol. 7 No. 2 (2019)
Vol. 7 No. 2 (2019)
Editorial Message
It is with great pride and joy to invite you to read the latest issue of the Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal (RMRJ). Before moving forward, I would like to have this opportunity to thank our readers, our contributors and researchers, and our editorial board for their time and effort that had gone into the development of this issue.
As we look at the RMRJ, it represents innovation and the collective thinking of a group to satisfy the thirst and hunger for knowledge. It is a known fact that part of human nature is its curiosity and naturally intrigued.
The RMRJ seeks to be the leader in promoting multidisciplinary research. It believes that multidisciplinary research shall be the gold standard of the entire scientific paradigm. It encourages different researchers from different fields to form and engage in solving different, complex scientific problems, innovating to improve our lives, and understanding human nature. At our time right now, there has been an increase undertaking of multiple disciplines being discussed under a single subject, increasing the need for us to engage in multidisciplinary studies.
We want RMRJ as one of the forefront journals that would make a great difference and impact on the academic community. That is why it is one of our next goals in the future to be indexed under SCOPUS. We would do our best to make sure we achieve that goal and keep being an avenue of multidisciplinary research.
DOI:
https://doi.org/10.32871/rmrj1907.02
Published:
2019-12-31
Articles
Improved Integrated Crop Management System of Mungbean (Vigna radiata Linn) Production in Central Luzon
Mary Grace B. Gatan, Menrado T. Gatan
1-13
pdf
Enhancing the Growth and Yield of Lettuce (Lactuca sativa L.) in Hydroponic System Using Magnetized Irrigation Water
Shirly O. Agcaoili
15-28
pdf
Rainforestation and Sustainable Development: From the Lens of the Four Individual Adopters from the Visayas Region in the Philippines
Guiraldo C. Fernandez, Marlito Jose M. Bande
29-46
pdf
Catholic Identity and Spiritual Well-Being of Students in a Philippine Catholic University
Enrique G. Oracion, Dennis V. Madrigal
47-60
pdf
Teachers’ Well-Being Through Work Engagement among Montfortian Schools in Asia
Arul Rayan Irudayaraj
61-78
pdf
The Caring Self: The Older Adult Care Providers’ Experiences
Daisy Palompon
79-88
pdf
Top Stressors among Filipino Undergraduate Students: A Multicenter - Interdisciplinary Study
Glynne P. Bate, Marivel B. Go, Severina P. Velos
89-101
pdf
Information
For Readers
For Authors
For Librarians
Make a Submission
Make a Submission
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal Copyright @2017
Center for Policy, Research, and Development Studies
Contact Number: 032-2537900 loc. 244
Email: recoletos_journal@usjr.edu.ph
Print ISSN: 2423-1398
Online ISSN: 2408-3755