https://rmrj.usjr.edu.ph/rmrj/index.php/RMRJ/article/view/53
A Philosophical Reinterpretation of Philippine History in the Perspective of Friedrich Nietzsche
| Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal
Skip to main content
Skip to main navigation menu
Skip to site footer
Open Menu
Home
Register
Current
Archives
About
About the Journal
Author Guidelines
Editorial Team
Publication Ethics and Malpractice
Open Access and Copyright Policy
Submissions
Contact
Announcements
Search
Register
Login
Home
/
Archives
/
Vol. 1 No. 2 (2013)
/
Articles
A Philosophical Reinterpretation of Philippine History in the Perspective of Friedrich Nietzsche
Authors
Glenn G. Pajares
University of San Jose-Recoletos
DOI:
https://doi.org/10.32871/rmrj1301.02.22
Keywords:
Philippine history, 											Philosophical Reinterpretation, 											Friedrich Nietzsche’s philosophy
Abstract
The study explained and interpreted Philippine history using the main themes ofFriedrich Nietzsche’s philosophy such as, Will to Power, the Uebermensch/superman, the Transvaluation of values, Master and Slave morality, Eternal recurrence, and tragedy. Further, this study employed qualitative interpretive analysis as method. Nietzsche’s philosophy emphasizes the role of the Will over reason as the most fundamental principle of human existence. The Will which he refers to as Will to Power is the impetus behind thestruggle for power, conquest, war, revolt, revolution and freedom. Similarly, the will to power gives the Filipinos the hope and courage to go through pain, suffering and despair. The assertion of Will to Power has produced the great men and women behind events of Philippine history. These supermen are responsible for the creation or the introduction of new values system, of reform and even of revolution (trans-valuation of values). The event of Philippine history follows a pattern of recurrence, the recurrence of colonization, war,independence, pain, and corruption. The study also found out that Philippine history in general is a tragedy; it is a struggle against suffering and despair.
Author Biography
Glenn G. Pajares, University of San Jose-Recoletos
is a graduate of A.B. Classical Philosophy (cum laude) from Sacred Heart Seminary, Palo, Leyte in the year 2000. He finished his Master of Arts in Philosophy in 2002 from the University of San Carlos, Cebu City. He garnered the degree Doctor of Philosophy in Philosophy from the same University in 2006. He is an assistant professor and the Chair of the Department of Social Sciences and Philosophy of the College of Arts and Sciences of the University of San Jose-Recoletos from 2007 to the present. Currently, he is pursuing the degree Doctor of Arts in Literature and Communication at the Cebu Normal University.
References
Books
Agoncillo, Teodoro. Short History of the Philippines. New York: New York Publishing House, Inc.,1969.
Agoncillo, Teodoro. History of the Filipino People. Manila: Garotech Publication, 1973.
Agoncillo, Teodoro. The Revolt of the Masses: The Story of Bonifacio and the Katipunan.Manila: Garotech Publications, 1956.
Arcilla, Jose.S. S.J. An Introduction to Philippine History. Manila: Ateneo de Manila University Press,1998.
Collingwood, Robin George. The Idea of History. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1946.
Corpus, Ronal M. and Lorna V. Wy. Time Travel: a Glimpse to Philippine History. Manila: Mindshapers Co., Inc., 2008.
De la Costa, Horacio SJ. Readings in Philippine History. Makati: Bookmark, Inc., 1992.
Duka, Cecilio D. The Struggle for Freedom: Textbook in Philippine History. Manila: Rex Bookstore, 2008.
Dupre, Louis. Marx Social Critique of Culture. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1983.
Garcia, Carlito D. Philippine History and Government for College Students. Mandaluyong City: Books atbp, Publishing Corp., 2010.
Halili, Maria Christine N. Philippine History. Quezon City: Rex Book Store, Inc., 2010.
Nietzsche, Friedrich. The Will to Power. (Trans. Walter Kaufmann) New York: Vintage Books, 1968.
Nietzsche, Friedrich. Use and Abuse of History.(Trans. Adrian Collins) New York: Bobbs-Merill Co.,Inc., 1957.
Nietzsche, Friedrich. The Birth of Tragedy. (Trans Walter Kaufmann) New York: Random House, 1967.
McDaniel, Stanley.V. The Major Works of Nietzsche. New York: Monarch Press, Inc, 1965.
Pickard, Hugh Rayment. Philosophy of History: From Enlightenment to Post Modernity. New York: Cornell University Press, 1995.
Tan, Samuel K. The Filipino-American War. (1899-1913). Manila: University of the Philippines Press, 2002.
Turot, Henri et al. Emilio Aguinaldo and the Filipino Martyrs. Manila: Trademark Publishing. Corporation, 1998.
Wilcox, John. Truth and Value in Nietzsche. New York: University of Michigan Press, 1974.
Zaide, Sonia. The Philippines: A Unique Nation. Quezon City: All Nations Publishing Co., Inc, 1994.
Zaide, Gregorio. The Pageant of Philippine History. Manila, 1979.
Unpublished Material
Lagura, Florencio SVD. “Dynamic Metaphysics of Nietzsche” Cebu: University of San. Carlos, 2000.
Internet Source
Nietzsche, Freidrich. “Belief in the Ego” Will to Power Book III. Retrieved on Nov. 6, 2013 available at <Nietzsche.holtof.com>
Spengler, Oswald. “Decline of the West” Trans. Arthur Helps. Retrieved on October 14, 2011 available at <http: //www.duke.edu/~aparks/Spengler.html.>
Toynbee, Arnold. Christianity and Civilization. Retrieved on October 14, 2011 available<http://www.myriobiblos.gr/texts/english/toynbee.html>
Downloads
full paper
Published
2013-12-31
How to Cite
Pajares, G. G. (2013). A Philosophical Reinterpretation of Philippine History in the Perspective of Friedrich Nietzsche. Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal, 1(2). https://doi.org/10.32871/rmrj1301.02.22
More Citation Formats
ACM
ACS
APA
ABNT
Chicago
Harvard
IEEE
MLA
Turabian
Vancouver
Download Citation
Endnote/Zotero/Mendeley (RIS)
BibTeX
Issue
Vol. 1 No. 2 (2013)
Section
Articles
License
Copyright of the Journal belongs to the University of San Jose-Recoletos
Most read articles by the same author(s)
Glenn G. Pajares,
Percia A. Leyte,
Richard B. Fernandez,
The Anglo-American Elements in Jose Rizal’s Poem Education Gives Luster to the Motherland
,
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal: Vol. 2 No. 1 (2014)
Glenn G. Pajares,
Insights of Conflict Management Strategies from the Perspectives of Selected Philosophers
,
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal: Vol. 3 No. 1 (2015)
Glenn G. Pajares,
Marietta D. Bongcales,
The Philippine and U.S. Expanded Defense Cooperation Agreement (EDCA): An Analysis
,
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal: Vol. 2 No. 2 (2014)
Arian G. Acampado,
Glenn G. Pajares,
Visayan Philosophy of Labor: A Reflection from the Notion of Kahimtang and John Paul II’s Philosophy
,
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal: Vol. 9 No. 2 (2021)
Similar Articles
Roberto N. Padua,
Miraluna L. Herrera,
Adriano V. Patac Jr.,
Michael V. Sabugaa,
Gibson T. Maglasang,
Mark S. Borres,
Jay M. Ontolan,
On Fractional and Fractal Derivatives in Relation to the Physics of Fractals
,
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal: Vol. 1 No. 2 (2013)
You may also start an advanced similarity search for this article.
Information
For Readers
For Authors
For Librarians
Make a Submission
Make a Submission
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal Copyright @2017
Center for Policy, Research, and Development Studies
Contact Number: 032-2537900 loc. 244
Email: recoletos_journal@usjr.edu.ph
Print ISSN: 2423-1398
Online ISSN: 2408-3755