https://rmrj.usjr.edu.ph/rmrj/index.php/RMRJ/article/view/198
Optimal Scheduling of Battery Energy Storage for Grid-Connected Load Using Photovoltaic System (PV) via Binary Particle Swarm Optimization (BPSO)
| Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal
Skip to main content
Skip to main navigation menu
Skip to site footer
Open Menu
Home
Register
Current
Archives
About
About the Journal
Author Guidelines
Editorial Team
Publication Ethics and Malpractice
Open Access and Copyright Policy
Submissions
Contact
Announcements
Search
Register
Login
Home
/
Archives
/
Vol. 4 No. 2 (2016)
/
Articles
Optimal Scheduling of Battery Energy Storage for Grid-Connected Load Using Photovoltaic System (PV) via Binary Particle Swarm Optimization (BPSO)
Authors
Eduardo D. Piedad Jr.
University of San Jose-Recoletos
Marc Edwin F. Montilla
National Grid Corporation of the Philippines
Mark Joseph E. Ortega
National Grid Corporation of the Philippines
DOI:
https://doi.org/10.32871/rmrj1604.02.04
Keywords:
Binary particle swarm optimization, 											battery energy storage system, 											photovoltaic system, 											interruptible load program, 											time-of-use scheme
Abstract
This paper presents an optimal dispatch of battery storage and its economic viability with a photovoltaic system. There are four modelled scenarios based on the combination of interruptible load program and the time-of-use scheme. The scenarios were modelled using a Binary Particle Swarm Optimization and were simulated using Matlab v6. In all the scenarios, this model successfully optimizes the battery dispatch scheduling while simultaneously minimizes the DU’s penalty from exceeding the maximum allowable power demand. This algorithm also optimizes the linearly forecasted demand for the next six year for all the scenarios. Then, an economic analysis for the possible investment to the combined BESS and PV system is conducted through the comparison of the payback periods of each scenario. The first scenario is implemented without ILP and a ToU scheme and has 79.86 payback years. With ILP scheme only, the second scenario has 33.37 payback years. Then the third scenario with ToU scheme only has a 30.29 payback years. Finally, the fourth scenario, with both ILP and ToU schemes, shows the fastest recovery of the investment with 21.57 payback years. Thus the combination of both ILP and ToU schemes provide the best economic benefit. Though the current proposed system is still not economically feasible however the foreseen positive trends on solar and battery technologies will make this system viable.
Author Biographies
Eduardo D. Piedad Jr., University of San Jose-Recoletos
Faculty, University of San Jose-Recoletos
Marc Edwin F. Montilla, National Grid Corporation of the Philippines
Cadet Engineer
Mark Joseph E. Ortega, National Grid Corporation of the Philippines
Cadet Engineer,
Downloads
PDF
Additional Files
Appendix
Published
2016-12-31
How to Cite
Piedad Jr., E. D., Montilla, M. E. F., & Ortega, M. J. E. (2016). Optimal Scheduling of Battery Energy Storage for Grid-Connected Load Using Photovoltaic System (PV) via Binary Particle Swarm Optimization (BPSO). Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal, 4(2). https://doi.org/10.32871/rmrj1604.02.04
More Citation Formats
ACM
ACS
APA
ABNT
Chicago
Harvard
IEEE
MLA
Turabian
Vancouver
Download Citation
Endnote/Zotero/Mendeley (RIS)
BibTeX
Issue
Vol. 4 No. 2 (2016)
Section
Articles
License
Copyright of the Journal belongs to the University of San Jose-Recoletos
Most read articles by the same author(s)
Eduardo D. Piedad Jr.,
Ricky B. Villeta,
Displacement and Illumination Levels Effect on Short-distance Measurement Errors of Using a Camera
,
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal: Vol. 4 No. 1 (2016)
Eduardo D. Piedad Jr.,
Various Trends on the National Development of Renewable Energy Source Affecting the Natural Resource Depletion
,
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal: Vol. 4 No. 1 (2016)
Information
For Readers
For Authors
For Librarians
Make a Submission
Make a Submission
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal Copyright @2017
Center for Policy, Research, and Development Studies
Contact Number: 032-2537900 loc. 244
Email: recoletos_journal@usjr.edu.ph
Print ISSN: 2423-1398
Online ISSN: 2408-3755