https://rmrj.usjr.edu.ph/index.php/2019/10/28/351/
Fr. Maspara’s Speech during the Launching of Recoletos Journals – Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal
Skip to content
Sunday, June 25, 2023
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal
Recoletos Journal
Home
About
About the Journal
Editorial Team
Author Guidelines
Publication Ethics and Malpractice
Open Access and Copyright Policy
Submission
Contact
Current
Archive
Announcement
Publication Ethics and Malpractice
REGISTER
LOG IN
Archive
Fr. Maspara’s Speech during the Launching of Recoletos Journals
October 28, 2019July 7, 2020
admin
1 Comment
How does one close a ceremony that launches something big, something
that will affect the future, and perhaps inspire the creation of other projects
and the publication of so many other works?
I may only tell you in words that will definitely fail to contain
exactly how I feel, that I feel so proud of the work that we have done and
accomplished through the years, leading us to this moment of launching these
Recoletos Journals.
In the spirit of Caritas et Scientia, we, as institutions mandated and
guided by the Recoletos charism, must be constant and vigilant in our mission
of serving as light that illuminates the path to which our communities go.
Through the years, we have seen various societal forces that threaten
the value of education and of research by putting the pursuit of academic
excellence and intellectual discourse under shades of doubt.
We have seen the development of a culture of intellectual shaming
pervading the social media and manifesting even in academic environments.
That we give importance to such works bound by ethics of scholarship,
such as conducting researches, writing papers, and publishing them so more
people may benefit from their merits, fills me with much pride and satisfaction.
It makes me feel proud that I work with colleagues who value academic
scholarship and who do not cease to search for knowledge. We are an institution
of perpetual learners.
Allow me, therefore, to extend my congratulations to all of you. It
has been said that teachers and academicians touch the future. I should tell
you; these publications that shall be read by current and future students,
academicians shall definitely touch the future.
There is a sense of immortality in writing, in publishing your thoughts. Long after we are done with our mission, these journals shall introduce us to others, shall pass our thoughts to others.
Congratulations! Do also know that I so much appreciate the hardship
that you were willing to go through in order for all of us to have reason to be
in this gathering, in this moment.
I pledge to support all research endeavors not only of USJ-R but that
of the entire Recoletos schools in the Philippines.
Thank you! Congratulations! Adelante!
← Previous Post
Top Stressors among Filipino Undergraduate Students: A Multicenter – Interdisciplinary Study →
You May Also Like
Vol. 5 No. 1
September 27, 2019October 9, 2019
admin
0
Vol. 5 No. 2
September 27, 2019October 9, 2019
admin
0
Vol. 7 No. 1
December 31, 2019June 30, 2020
admin
0
One thought on “Fr. Maspara’s Speech during the Launching of Recoletos Journals”
JessicaNovember 13, 2019 at 10:36 amPermalink
Thank you Fr. Maspara. Your message warmed our hearts and inspire us to do more, and be more.
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
63
Live visitors
Video Abstracts
Construction of Difference Sets from Unions of Cyclotomic Classes of OrdThe infusion of folk catholicism to tambal binisaya as an indigenous healing systemInterlocking Directorates in the PhilippinesSocial Support Generating Application using Lazy Supervised AlgorithmFOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK
About Us
The Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal (RMRJ) is the official bi-annual journal of the University of San Jose-Recoletos (USJ-R) Center for Policy, Research, and Development Studies (CPRDS).
Being an internationally peer reviewed journal, RMRJ adopts the double-blind review process wherein the reviewer/s and the author/s do not know each other’s identity.
RMRJ is dedicated to the promotion of knowledge through high quality research publication in various disciplines. It adheres to the policy that all articles contained therein must meet the rigors of an independent double-blind peer-reviewing system and editing to ensure that the publication possesses scientific and academic merit.
Print ISSN: 2423-1398
Online ISSN: 2408-3755
Quick Links
Register
Log-In
Current
Archive
Announcement
About the Journal
Editorial Team
Editorial Policy
Submission
Contact
Information
For Readers
For Authors
For Librarians
Contact Us
Center for Policy, Research, and Development Studies
(032) 253-7900 local 244
recoletos_journal@usjr.edu.ph
Copyright © 2023 Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal. All rights reserved.