https://rmrj.usjr.edu.ph/rmrj/index.php/RMRJ/article/view/118
The Duplicitous Character of Bilingual Education Policy
| Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal
Skip to main content
Skip to main navigation menu
Skip to site footer
Open Menu
Home
Register
Current
Archives
About
About the Journal
Author Guidelines
Editorial Team
Publication Ethics and Malpractice
Open Access and Copyright Policy
Submissions
Contact
Announcements
Search
Register
Login
Home
/
Archives
/
Vol. 3 No. 2 (2015)
/
Articles
The Duplicitous Character of Bilingual Education Policy
Authors
Gaurang Rami
Veer Narmad South Gujarat University
Ana Marie Fernandez
Cebu Normal University
DOI:
https://doi.org/10.32871/rmrj1503.02.05
Keywords:
Bilingual, 											Education, 											Cultural complexities, 											Cebu, 											Philippines
Abstract
This study investigated the positioning of teacher education institutions (TEIs) in the glocalization continuum of bilingual complexities in responding to the global and local demands for harmonious and peaceful nation building. This study was exploratory in nature. The researchers used survey questionnaires to account the effects of more than four decades of enforcement of Bilingual Education in the Microcosm area in Cebu City (Philippines).Stratified sampling technique was employed; wherein strata were divided based on specialization of the 213 pre-service teachers. Cronbach’s alpha was usedto measure reliability and internal consistency of the instrument. Principle component method through factor analysis was utilized to reduce the data complexity and to identify important factors of bilingual education policy. Results revealed that bilingual education policy has duplicitous character in a non-native English country. Yet, it is a tool that can propel nation building. Much of it lies in the hands of the teacher education institutions’ power and capacity to ignite other industries of the country.
Author Biographies
Gaurang Rami, Veer Narmad South Gujarat University
is serving as Professor at Department of Economics, Veer Narmad South Gujarat University, Surat (Gujarat-India). Dr Rami has served as Visiting Professor at Cebu Normal University, Cebu City, Philippines (2013) and Batumi Navigation Teaching University Ltd., Batumi, Georgia (2015). He has about fourteen years of teaching and research experience. Dr. Rami holds Doctorate degree in Economics, Masters in Economics with specialization in Econometrics and Masters in Sociology with specialization in Industrial Sociology, and he has done Post Graduate Diploma in Research Methodology [PGDRM]. Dr. Rami has completed Certificate Course in Advance SPSS. Dr. Rami was awarded with entire university Gold Medal for securing highest percentage at Post Graduate level in Economics. He has published ten books, three working papers, one monograph, four chapters in an edited book, and more than thirty research papers in national and international referred journals. Dr. Rami has presented more than thirty research papers in various national and international conferences/seminar. Three of his papers received ‘Best Paper’ award in National and International conference. One M.Phil and Three Ph.D. Scholar have received their degree under his guidance. At present seven research scholars are pursuing their Ph.D under his guidance. Dr. Rami has served his expertise in about eight research projects funded by different agencies. His areas of interests areQuantitative Methods, Econometrics, Economics of Development and Growth, Data Analysis and Research Methodology.
Ana Marie Fernandez, Cebu Normal University
is serving as Assistant Professor at the College of Teacher Education, Cebu Normal University, Cebu City (Cebu- Philippines). Professor Fernandez has served as Teacher II at the Department of Education Cebu City Division (2002). She had been an elementary and secondary teacher serving grades one, two and six level. She taught secondary level as subject teacher for Physics and Chemistry (2001). She has about 16 years of teaching both in the private and government service. Professor Fernandez holds MastersDegree in the Art of Teaching Special Education majoring in General Science. She has taught Professional Education courses: Curriculum Development, Educational Technology, Special Topic, Facilitating Learning and Assessment of Learning, Introduction to Special Education and Preparation of Instructional Materials. She had been a Faculty Representative for the College of Teacher Education (2009-2013). She has been an adviser of Cebu Normal University Association of Working students (2013-2016). She has been involved in several community developments. She has beenan organizer of a community program for the youth, the ALS community based program (2003). She is also active in organizing a center for children and adult with special needs (PWD).
References
Anderson, N., & Pyle, A. (1998, May 18). PUBLIC EDUCATION: California’s perilous slide; bilingual classes a knotty issue; dispute: Schools at opposite poles in the debate show that neither the bilingual approach nor english-only instruction is succeeding very well in moving students into english fluency. series: PUBLIC EDUCATION: California’s perilous slide. second of 3 parts. Los Angeles Times Retrieved from http://ezproxy.usjr.edu.ph:2066/docview/421286102?accountid=33262
Maeroff, G. I. (1985, Sep 28). Debate on U.S. bilingual education: Blending methodology and society. New York Time.
National Commission for Culture and Arts. (2015, April 30). Language policies in the Philippines. Retrieved from http://ncca.gov.ph/subcommissions/subcommission-on-cultural-disseminationscd/language-and-translation/language-policies-in-the-philippines/
Owens, J. (2002, Nov 10). Districts struggling to fill bilingual-teacher posts; students in need of
help on rise. Chicago Tribune Retrieved from http://ezproxy.usjr.edu.ph:2066/docview/419557918?accountid=33262
Padua, R. (2012, September). Principles of extension programs, paper presented at Cebu Normal University, Cebu City, September 2012.
Poe, J. T. (1998, Feb 16). The bilingual dilemma. Chicago Tribune Retrieved from http://ezproxy.usjr.edu.ph:2066/docview/418544750?accountid=33262
Subramanian, S., & Cassidy, J. (2006, Aug 31). New policy on bilingual classes. Orange County Register.
Downloads
PDF
Published
2015-12-03
How to Cite
Rami, G., & Fernandez, A. M. (2015). The Duplicitous Character of Bilingual Education Policy. Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal, 3(2). https://doi.org/10.32871/rmrj1503.02.05
More Citation Formats
ACM
ACS
APA
ABNT
Chicago
Harvard
IEEE
MLA
Turabian
Vancouver
Download Citation
Endnote/Zotero/Mendeley (RIS)
BibTeX
Issue
Vol. 3 No. 2 (2015)
Section
Articles
License
Copyright of the Journal belongs to the University of San Jose-Recoletos
Similar Articles
Jesse Sagayno Susada,
Students’ Grade vs. Teachers’ Evaluation:
An Empirical Validation
,
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal: Vol. 4 No. 2 (2016)
You may also start an advanced similarity search for this article.
Information
For Readers
For Authors
For Librarians
Make a Submission
Make a Submission
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal Copyright @2017
Center for Policy, Research, and Development Studies
Contact Number: 032-2537900 loc. 244
Email: recoletos_journal@usjr.edu.ph
Print ISSN: 2423-1398
Online ISSN: 2408-3755