https://rmrj.usjr.edu.ph/index.php/2022/08/31/scopus-acceptance/
RMRJ is Scopus-indexed – Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal
Skip to content
Sunday, June 25, 2023
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal
Recoletos Journal
Home
About
About the Journal
Editorial Team
Author Guidelines
Publication Ethics and Malpractice
Open Access and Copyright Policy
Submission
Contact
Current
Archive
Announcement
Publication Ethics and Malpractice
REGISTER
LOG IN
Slider
RMRJ is Scopus-indexed
August 31, 2022September 13, 2022
admin
0 Comments
Congratulations to the University of San Jose-Recoletos, the Center for Policy Research and Development Studies (CPRDS), the Recoletos Administration, and the late Dr. Roberto N. Padua, who believed and gave their support to the Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal (RMRJ) from its conception, publication, until the present. A testament to what every Josenian’s all-out and continuous support can achieve.
The Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal(RMRJ) of the University of San Jose-Recoletos has been accepted for indexing by Scopus. The indexing entity, which is the largest and one of the two most widely-used citation databases in the world, is also the most respected platform for analysing peer-reviewed literature.
RMRJ has gotten the approval for quality research articles
by the Scopus Title Evaluation Team. The editorial team of the said journal
received the formal correspondence from the Scopus Content Selection &
Advisory Board (CSAB) approving RMRJ’s inclusion in Scopus on August 28 this
year which coincided with the feast day of St. Augustine, the saint that
inspires the way of life of the Order of Augustinian Recollects’ who founded
the University of San Jose-Recoletos (USJ-R).
Over the years, the University of San Jose – Recoletos has
taken pivotal steps and invested in intensifying its pursuit to be at the
forefront of Catholic education in the field of research.  In 2013, USJ-R, through the Center for
Policy, Research and Development Studies then led by Dr. Juanito B. Alino, gave
birth to the Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal (RMRJ) with a vision
to emerge as an autonomous and leading force in multidisciplinary research.
The mentorship of the late Dr. Roberto N. Padua and the succession
of Dr. Agnes C. Sequino as the head of CPRDS were instrumental in the building
of research culture in the university and ensuring the sustainability of
research production and utilization. Currently, with 19 volumes of published
issues, RMRJ dedicates itself towards the promotion of knowledge through
high-quality research publications in various disciplines.
Since its inception, RMRJ has achieved major feats through
the years. In 2013, in its maiden publication, it affirmed USJR’s research
university direction and contributed to maintaining the USJR’s autonomous
status until now. At first, it achieved category B status in its maiden issue
and not long after was recognized by CHED as a Category A Journal in August
2014 on its 2nd publication. The journal was indexed in Google Scholar and was
awarded as CHED Journal Incubation Program (JIP) grantee in August 2017 and
three months after, RMRJ was inducted into the ASEAN Citation Index in November
2017. Further, it was indexed in CROSSREF and in Philippine E-Journals (PEJ) in
2018.
In 2020, its health-related papers were adapted and migrated
to HERDIN PLUS. RMRJ became part of the Directory of Open Access Journals
(DOAJ) and the Visayas Mindanao Consortium for Journal Publication Inc.
(VMCJPI) in 2021 and was added to the Andrew Gonzalez Philippines Citation
Index in 2022.
In research publication, the indexation of a journal is
viewed as the best indicator of its quality.
At present, there are only 24 journals in the Philippines
that are indexed in Scopus. RMRJ is the lone Scopus-indexed journal in the
Visayas and one of the only two journals outside Luzon.
Above all, USJR joins UP System, ADMU, DLSU
Manila, UST, and USTP as the only Philippine-based universities that have
Scopus-indexed journals.
← Symbolic Actions of Cultural Characters in Davao Folk Narratives
Deriving a Formula in Solving Reverse Fibonacci Means →
You May Also Like
October 2, 2019August 1, 2022
admin
0
RMRJ Vol. 10 no. 2
December 31, 2022January 17, 2023
admin
0
Call for Papers
January 17, 2023January 19, 2023
admin
0
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
63
Live visitors
Video Abstracts
Construction of Difference Sets from Unions of Cyclotomic Classes of OrdThe infusion of folk catholicism to tambal binisaya as an indigenous healing systemInterlocking Directorates in the PhilippinesSocial Support Generating Application using Lazy Supervised AlgorithmFOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK
About Us
The Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal (RMRJ) is the official bi-annual journal of the University of San Jose-Recoletos (USJ-R) Center for Policy, Research, and Development Studies (CPRDS).
Being an internationally peer reviewed journal, RMRJ adopts the double-blind review process wherein the reviewer/s and the author/s do not know each other’s identity.
RMRJ is dedicated to the promotion of knowledge through high quality research publication in various disciplines. It adheres to the policy that all articles contained therein must meet the rigors of an independent double-blind peer-reviewing system and editing to ensure that the publication possesses scientific and academic merit.
Print ISSN: 2423-1398
Online ISSN: 2408-3755
Quick Links
Register
Log-In
Current
Archive
Announcement
About the Journal
Editorial Team
Editorial Policy
Submission
Contact
Information
For Readers
For Authors
For Librarians
Contact Us
Center for Policy, Research, and Development Studies
(032) 253-7900 local 244
recoletos_journal@usjr.edu.ph
Copyright © 2023 Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal. All rights reserved.