https://rmrj.usjr.edu.ph/rmrj/index.php/RMRJ/issue/view/31
Vol. 10 No. 2 (2022)
| Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal
Skip to main content
Skip to main navigation menu
Skip to site footer
Open Menu
Home
Register
Current
Archives
About
About the Journal
Author Guidelines
Editorial Team
Publication Ethics and Malpractice
Open Access and Copyright Policy
Submissions
Contact
Announcements
Search
Register
Login
Home
/
Archives
/
Vol. 10 No. 2 (2022)
Vol. 10 No. 2 (2022)
Welcome 2023!
The water rabbit in the Chinese culture is associated with intuity and thoughtfulness (shorturl.at/KLOPR).  At first glance, these characteristics may seem far from what a researcher needs, but in hindsight, to work using one’s instinct and to be in “the state of being absorbed in thought” are often necessary for research work.
In RMRJ’s December issue, the authors’ intuition and thoughtfulness, vis a vis the methodological rigor they employed, are showcased.
Under Society and Psychology, the Auditors’ Professional Skepticism and Its Relationship with Their Thinking Styles and The Determinants of Fake News Adaptation during COVID-19 Pandemic: A Social Psychology Approach were explored.
In Math, the readers will be brought to an investigation of Deriving a Formula in Solving Reverse Fibonacci Means.
The Business community will be presented with updating and how these efforts fared in Sugbo Negosyo Program Digital Card Implementation: Technology Acceptance and Satisfaction among Microentrepreneur-Beneficiaries and Digital Finance on Stability among Philippine Banks.
Culture will be unveiled in The Tuba Culture in Leyte, Philippines, and the Symbolic Actions of Cultural Characters in Davao Folk Narratives.
Thank you for being part of the academic discussion in RMRJ.  We look forward to your active contribution in the ongoing conversation.
Professor NILO T. BUGTAI, Ph.D.Editor-In-ChiefFull Professor of Manufacturing Engineering and Management (MEM)Director, Institute of Biomedical Engineering and Health Technologies (IBEHT)De La Salle University, Manila Philippines
DOI:
https://doi.org/10.32871/rmrj2210.02
Published:
2022-08-08
Articles
Auditors’ Professional Skepticism and Its Relationship with Their Thinking Styles
Teovy Erdel Bongcales, Ariel Balunan, Loriemar Igot, Jurienel Mae Laude, JJ Jycka Mojados, Kristine June Uy
1-17
FULL PAPER
The Determinants of Fake News Adaptation during COVID-19 Pandemic: A Social Psychology Approach
Choon Ling Kwek, Ke Shin Yeow, Li Zhang, Kay Hooi Keoy, Genaro Japos
19-39
FULL PAPER
Deriving a Formula in Solving Reverse Fibonacci Means
Steven Elizalde, Romeo Patan
41-45
FULL PAPER
Sugbo Negosyo Program Digital Card Implementation: Technology Acceptance and Satisfaction among Microentrepreneur-Beneficiaries
Mary Gretchen Chaves
47-61
FULL PAPER
Digital Finance on Stability among Philippine Banks
Albie Mae G. Sumaylo, Christine Mae S. Babon, Marivic L. Bayaras, Ella Michelle E. Pedrigal, Aleshia Klyne S. Pening, Mary Joy C. Teodosio, Jesse S. Susada
63-73
FULL PAPER
The Tuba Culture in Leyte, Philippines
Sheldon Ives G. Agaton
75-85
FULL PAPER
Symbolic Actions of Cultural Characters in Davao Folk Narratives
Angelo Lenard E. Yu, Joanna Z. De Catalina
87-98
FULL PAPER
Information
For Readers
For Authors
For Librarians
Make a Submission
Make a Submission
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal Copyright @2017
Center for Policy, Research, and Development Studies
Contact Number: 032-2537900 loc. 244
Email: recoletos_journal@usjr.edu.ph
Print ISSN: 2423-1398
Online ISSN: 2408-3755