https://rmrj.usjr.edu.ph/rmrj/index.php/RMRJ/article/view/84
The Palm Oil Industry in Southeast Asia: Challenges and Opportunities
| Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal
Skip to main content
Skip to main navigation menu
Skip to site footer
Open Menu
Home
Register
Current
Archives
About
About the Journal
Author Guidelines
Editorial Team
Publication Ethics and Malpractice
Open Access and Copyright Policy
Submissions
Contact
Announcements
Search
Register
Login
Home
/
Archives
/
Vol. 1 No. 1 (2013)
/
Articles
The Palm Oil Industry in Southeast Asia: Challenges and Opportunities
Authors
Agnes C. Sequiño
University of San Jose-Recoletos
Zosima A. Pañares
University of the Visayas
DOI:
https://doi.org/10.32871/rmrj1301.01.08
Keywords:
Palm Oil, 											Environmental Scanning, 											Social Impact Plans
Abstract
The study focuses on the palm oil industry which has been a major contributor to the economies of Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia. These countries have been looked upon as the major players in the industry in the world market. This environmental scanning study assessed the contributions and the challenges posed by the presence of the industry to the countries under study. This qualitative and quantitative study looked into the two trends in the impact assessment with reference to case study examples of some industry players in Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines. The first part dealt with the increasing focus on the cumulative impacts and the second part on the emerging requirements to link the social and economic impact to the ongoing social impact plans. An analysis on the effects of the industry’s presence within the context of input – output model, proved to have an impact on the environment, socio-economic and political situation and other relevant factors. These effects on education, housing, population, crime rate, local authority funding and quality of life of people in the regional community have led to be the basis for policies and Social Impact Plans for the Southeast Asian countries. An advocacy may be initiated on countries with emerging economies to benchmark from countries which have improved their socio-political and economic conditions considering the positive impact of the industry’s presence.
Author Biographies
Agnes C. Sequiño, University of San Jose-Recoletos
an Industrial Technologist graduated from the Cebu Technological University in 1980, a holder of a Master of Management degree from University of San Jose-Recoletos and is pursuing a PhD in Research and Evaluation Degree from the Cebu Normal University. She has eleven years of experience in the industry prior to her twenty years stint in the academe. Her exposure to the volunteer work with the Maryknoll Missionaries in the past opened her horizons to be a volunteer adviser to the Business Advisory Program of the Philippine Business for Social Progress while working as a professor and faculty researcher of the Dept. of Business and Management of the University of San Jose- Recoletos. She has published research papers related to the IT – BPO Industry and was one of the invited speakers to the Annual World Congress for IT Outsourcing held at Nikko Hotel, Dalian City, China in August 28-30, 2012.Her competencies are in the field of business research, marketing and management. She has been awarded a scholarship grant by the Tallberg Foundation to be the country’s representative to the 5th Global Entrepreneurship Summit in Leksand, Sweden in 2010 and was invited as a panelist representing the Philippine to the 19th Annual International Conference of the Association of Employment Practices and Principles (AEPP) held at the East West Center in the University of Hawaii at Manoa in October 2011. She has recently presented and published her latest study on Palm Oil Industry in Southeast Asia: Challenges and Opportunities in the Journal Strategic and International Studies in Key West, Florida, U.S.A. in May 2013.
Zosima A. Pañares, University of the Visayas
received her Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Education with major in Research and Evaluation (Academic Excellence) from the University of the Philippines-Diliman. She is the Dean of the Graduate School of the University of the Visayas. Her professional experience covers more than forty years of teaching and nearly a decade of managing Research Centers of different Universities. Ma’am Sue, as fondly called by her colleagues and friends, mentors statistics and research to graduate students and postgraduate students all over the country. Dr. Pañares holds a baccalaureate degree in Elementary Education with major in Guidance (Magna cum Laude) from the University of the Visayas, a Master of Arts in Education with major in Guidance and Counselling and a Certificate of Proficiency in Mathematics from the Cebu Normal University.
References
Basiron. 2008. Malaysia’s Oil Palm – Hallmark of Sustainable Development, Global Oils & Fats Business Magazine, 5(4).
Global Oils and Fat Business, 2008. Malaysia’s Oil Palm – Hallmark of Sustainable Development.Global Oils & Fats Business, 5(4).
Indonesian Palm Oil Development to Accomplish the Indonesian Vision of the Year 2020. OIL PALM INDUSTRY ECONOMIC JOURNAL (VOL. 3 (1)/2003).
Kui, D.P.C.F., 2008. Malaysian Efforts in Developing Responsible Practises in the Palm Oil Industry, edited version of the keynote address by the Malaysian Minister of Plantation Industries and Commodities at the World Sustainable Palm Oil Conference, London. Global Oils & Fats Business Magazine, 5(4).
Lama, Tana, Lee &Rahma. 2009. Malaysian palm oil: Surviving the food versus fuel dispute for a sustainable future, Renewable and Sustainable
Energy Reviews, 13(Volume 13, Issues 6-7, August-September 2009).
MPOC, n.d. The Oil Palm Tree.
S.O. Aghalino. British Colonial Policies And The Oil Palm Industry In The Niger Delta Region Of Nigeria, 1900-1960. African Study Monographs, 21(1): 19- 33, January 2000.
Malaysia’s Oil Palm 2008., – Hallmark of Sustainable Development, Global Oils & Fats Business Magazine, Vol. 5, Issue No. 4;
Suranovic, S. (2010).International trade: Theory and policy. George Washington University.eISBN: 978-1-4533-2732-6. Available online from Flat World Knowledge, Inc.
USDA. (2007), Indonesia: Palm Oil Production Prospects Continue to Grow, Foreign Agriculture Service Commodity Intelligence Report, 31 December, Washington DC.
Villanueva, Jo. (n.d.) Oil Palm Expansion in the Philippines Analysis of Land Rights, Environment and Food Security Issues (in Oil Palm Expansion in Southeast Asia: Trends an Implications for Local communities and Indigenous People by FPP and Sawitwatch, 2011).
Voegele, Erin. (2011)., European Commission announces new voluntary schemes under Renewable Energy Directive. Biodeisel Magazine. July 20, 2011.
Downloads
PDF
Published
2013-06-18
How to Cite
Sequiño, A. C., & Pañares, Z. A. (2013). The Palm Oil Industry in Southeast Asia: Challenges and Opportunities. Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal, 1(1). https://doi.org/10.32871/rmrj1301.01.08
More Citation Formats
ACM
ACS
APA
ABNT
Chicago
Harvard
IEEE
MLA
Turabian
Vancouver
Download Citation
Endnote/Zotero/Mendeley (RIS)
BibTeX
Issue
Vol. 1 No. 1 (2013)
Section
Articles
License
Copyright of the Journal belongs to the University of San Jose-Recoletos
Most read articles by the same author(s)
Ryan O. Tayco,
Agnes C. Sequiño,
A Correlational Analysis of Global Climate Risk Indices and Tourism Industry Indicators Using Fractal Statistics
,
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal: Vol. 2 No. 1 (2014)
Agnes C. Sequiño,
Jessica M. Avenido,
The World’s Leader in the Palm Oil Industry : Indonesia
,
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal: Vol. 3 No. 1 (2015)
Similar Articles
Joy Mirasol,
Efren O. Barabat,
On a Fractal Representation of the Density of Primes
,
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal: Vol. 2 No. 2 (2014)
You may also start an advanced similarity search for this article.
Information
For Readers
For Authors
For Librarians
Make a Submission
Make a Submission
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal Copyright @2017
Center for Policy, Research, and Development Studies
Contact Number: 032-2537900 loc. 244
Email: recoletos_journal@usjr.edu.ph
Print ISSN: 2423-1398
Online ISSN: 2408-3755