https://rmrj.usjr.edu.ph/rmrj/index.php/RMRJ/article/view/242
Discursive Strategies in Negotiating Power: The Case of a Female Radio Show Host
| Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal
Skip to main content
Skip to main navigation menu
Skip to site footer
Open Menu
Home
Register
Current
Archives
About
About the Journal
Author Guidelines
Editorial Team
Publication Ethics and Malpractice
Open Access and Copyright Policy
Submissions
Contact
Announcements
Search
Register
Login
Home
/
Archives
/
Vol. 5 No. 1 (2017)
/
Articles
Discursive Strategies in Negotiating Power: The Case of a Female Radio Show Host
Authors
Claudette Arcelon Baluran
West Visayas State University
Nancy Simoy Surmieda
West Visayas State University
DOI:
https://doi.org/10.32871/rmrj1705.01.03
Keywords:
media discourse, 											discourse strategies, 											power, 											solidarity
Abstract
Language as a major contestation site for power can manifest linguistic behavior between sexes to negotiate their power.  Framed within the poststructuralist framework, this study explored a female radio host’s discursive strategies to negotiate power in the context of Philippine media.  Dominant discourse strategies identified include topic control, utterance length, minimal response, and overlapping.  Topic control was utilized to dominate the flow of discourse while utterance length was used to minimize turns thereby allowing the female host to establish dominance during the live conversations. Although considered a weak discourse strategy, minimal responses were used not solely for the purpose of solidarity but to introduce the female radio show host’s ideas.  Overlapping was another strategy identified to control and negotiate power.  On an interesting note, prosodic elements were found to be likewise used to negotiate power.  The study sheds light on previously claimed weak discourse strategies identified with women.  Weak language in this study as well as discourse strategies associated with men has been found to be used by women as means to an end—as  a strategy to negotiate positions of dominance within power relations involving the opposite sex.
Author Biographies
Claudette Arcelon Baluran, West Visayas State University
Department of English, Foreign Languages, and Literary Studies, College of Arts and SciencesAssociate Professor V
Nancy Simoy Surmieda, West Visayas State University
Social Science DepartmentProfessor III
References
Cunha, et al. (2014).
He Votes or she votes?
female and male discursive strategies in Twitter
political hashtags.
Retrieved June 12, 2016 from
Eckert, P. & Ginet-McConnet, S. (2003).
Language and Gender.
USA: Cambridge University Press, New York
Fairclough, N.
(1989). Language and power.
New York:
Longman Group UK Ltd.
Kendall, S. and Tannen, D. (2015).
Discourse and gender. in The Handbook of Discourse
Analysis, 2nd Edition, ed. by Tannen, D., Hamilton, H., and Schiffrin, D. UK: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Lakoff, R. (1975).
Language and woman’s place.
Harper and Row, New York, N.Y.
Lakoff, R.
(2003). The handbook of language and gender, ed. by Holmes, J. and Meyerhoff, M. USA:
Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
Tannen, D. (1989). Interpreting Interruption in Conversation. Papers from the 25th Annual Regional Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society. Part Two: Parasession on Language in Context, ed. byBradley Music, Randolph Graczyk, and Caroline Wiltshire, 266-87. Chicago: Chicago Linguistic Society
Tannen, D. (1993).
Women and Men in Conversation.
The Workings of Language: From
Prescriptions to Perspectives, ed. by Wheeler, R. London: Praeger
Wilkinson, S. and Kitzinger, C. (2011).
Conversation Analysis.
Continuum Companion to Discourse Analysis, ed. by Hyland, K. and Paltridge, B. London:
Continuum International Publishing Group
Weedon, Cris. (2003). “Subjects”. in A Concise Companion to Feminist Theory.
Ed. Eagleton, Mary.
UK:
Blackwell Publishing Ltd., 2003. Print.
Yieke, (2007) Gender and Topic Management in Discourse: The Glass Ceiling as a Reality for Women in Corporate Kenya.
Stichproben. Wiener Zeitschrift für kritische Afrikastudien Nr. 13/2007, 7. Jg. Retrieved June 12, 2016 from https://stichproben.univie.ac.at/fileadmin/
user_upload/ p_stichproben/Artikel/Nummer13/Nr13_Yieke.pdf
Downloads
PDF
Published
2017-10-11
How to Cite
Baluran, C. A., & Surmieda, N. S. (2017). Discursive Strategies in Negotiating Power: The Case of a Female Radio Show Host. Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal, 5(1). https://doi.org/10.32871/rmrj1705.01.03
More Citation Formats
ACM
ACS
APA
ABNT
Chicago
Harvard
IEEE
MLA
Turabian
Vancouver
Download Citation
Endnote/Zotero/Mendeley (RIS)
BibTeX
Issue
Vol. 5 No. 1 (2017)
Section
Articles
License
Copyright of the Journal belongs to the University of San Jose-Recoletos
Information
For Readers
For Authors
For Librarians
Make a Submission
Make a Submission
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal Copyright @2017
Center for Policy, Research, and Development Studies
Contact Number: 032-2537900 loc. 244
Email: recoletos_journal@usjr.edu.ph
Print ISSN: 2423-1398
Online ISSN: 2408-3755