https://rmrj.usjr.edu.ph/rmrj/index.php/RMRJ/article/view/66
Organizational and Financial Performance of Cooperatives in Misamis Occidental
| Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal
Skip to main content
Skip to main navigation menu
Skip to site footer
Open Menu
Home
Register
Current
Archives
About
About the Journal
Author Guidelines
Editorial Team
Publication Ethics and Malpractice
Open Access and Copyright Policy
Submissions
Contact
Announcements
Search
Register
Login
Home
/
Archives
/
Vol. 1 No. 2 (2013)
/
Articles
Organizational and Financial Performance of Cooperatives in Misamis Occidental
Authors
Wilson C. Nabua
Northwestern Mindanao State College
Reynaldo L. Aleman
Northwestern Mindanao State College
Marilou M. Abatayo
Northwestern Mindanao State College
Edna E. dela Sierra
Gov. Alfonso D. Tan College
DOI:
https://doi.org/10.32871/rmrj1301.02.04
Keywords:
organizational and financial performance, 											cooperatives, 											fractal statistics
Abstract
This paper tried to assess the performance of the cooperatives using a surrogate measure of data roughness through fractal dimensions. Fractal dimensions as statistical quantities are robust measures which are not easily influenced by extreme observations unlike other variancebased performance measures. This study used the data of the 35 farmers’ cooperatives in Misamis Occidental provided by the Department of Agrarian Reform. The fractal dimensions on membership, farm and off-farm income of members, capital build up, savings mobilization, assets and liabilities were measured through the fractal software. The results revealed that all the variables mentioned had high fractal dimensions. The farm and non-farm income of the members and the number of members with capital build up had the lowest fractal dimensions while the general membership and assets had the highest ones. The implication is that thevariables with higher fractal dimensions are more volatile and unpredictable than those with lower fractal dimensions. In particular, the farm and non-farm incomes are unreliable as indicators of financial stability of the economic conditions of the member farmers.
References
Das, B., N. K. Palai, and K. Das. (2006). Problems and Prospects of the Cooperative Movement in India Under the Globalization Regime.
XIV International Economic History Congress
Mills, Cliff and W. Davies. (2013). Blueprint for Cooperative Decade. International Co-operative Alliance. University of Oxford.
Nabua, W.C., A.O. Lanioso, J. T. Aquino, C. Bidad, L. Cainta. (2013). OE-NADA on Rice Farming Mechanization with Demo Farm Cum Rice Trading. ARCCESS Program of the Department of Agrarian Reform, Zamboanga del Norte.
Nwanko, F., N. Ewuim and N. Aoya (2013) Role of Cooperatives in Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) Development in Nigeria: Challenges and the Way Forward.
Padua, Roberto, N. with Palompon, Daisy, R. and Ontoy, Dexter S. (2012) “Data Roughness and Fractal Statistics” (CNU Journal of Higher
Education, Vol. 6, No.1, CHED-JAS Category A, pp. 87-101)
Padua, Roberto with Barabat, Efren (2013) “ On the Properties of Multifractal Spectrum” (The Recoletos Journal of Higher Education, Vol. 1,
No.1, Research Journal of the University of San Jose Recoletos, CHED-JAS Category B, pp. 78-89)
Prakash, D. (n.d. ) Capacity Building of Agricultural Cooperatives To Meet the Market and Human Resources Development Demands: A Stepby-Step Approach. PAMDA-NETWORK International. J-102 Kalkaji, New Delhi 110019
Downloads
full paper
Published
2013-12-31
How to Cite
Nabua, W. C., Aleman, R. L., Abatayo, M. M., & dela Sierra, E. E. (2013). Organizational and Financial Performance of Cooperatives in Misamis Occidental. Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal, 1(2). https://doi.org/10.32871/rmrj1301.02.04
More Citation Formats
ACM
ACS
APA
ABNT
Chicago
Harvard
IEEE
MLA
Turabian
Vancouver
Download Citation
Endnote/Zotero/Mendeley (RIS)
BibTeX
Issue
Vol. 1 No. 2 (2013)
Section
Articles
License
Copyright of the Journal belongs to the University of San Jose-Recoletos
Similar Articles
Roberto N. Padua,
Joel G. Adanza,
Efren O. Barabat,
Dionisel Y. Regalado,
Construction of a Simple Multifractal Spectrum as an Alternative to the Legendre Spectra in Multifractal Formalisms
,
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal: Vol. 1 No. 1 (2013)
You may also start an advanced similarity search for this article.
Information
For Readers
For Authors
For Librarians
Make a Submission
Make a Submission
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal Copyright @2017
Center for Policy, Research, and Development Studies
Contact Number: 032-2537900 loc. 244
Email: recoletos_journal@usjr.edu.ph
Print ISSN: 2423-1398
Online ISSN: 2408-3755