https://rmrj.usjr.edu.ph/rmrj/index.php/RMRJ/article/view/71
Symbolism at the Heart of Bantu Traditional Religion (Research conducted in Bantu Land of Republic of Zambia and Republic of Malawi)
| Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal
Skip to main content
Skip to main navigation menu
Skip to site footer
Open Menu
Home
Register
Current
Archives
About
About the Journal
Author Guidelines
Editorial Team
Publication Ethics and Malpractice
Open Access and Copyright Policy
Submissions
Contact
Announcements
Search
Register
Login
Home
/
Archives
/
Vol. 1 No. 2 (2013)
/
Articles
Symbolism at the Heart of Bantu Traditional Religion (Research conducted in Bantu Land of Republic of Zambia and Republic of Malawi)
Authors
Ryan L. Contamina
Graduate School Student
University of San Jose-Recoletos
DOI:
https://doi.org/10.32871/rmrj1301.02.11
Keywords:
symbolism, 											Bantu religion, 											Chiwa tribe
Abstract
This paper looks at the core of traditional Bantu religion and taking some particular practices and phenomena as examples to explore how the symbol plays an irreplaceable role in traditional religious circles in Chiwa tribe in Republic of Malawi and with the Bemba1 tribe of Republic of Zambia. At the heart of many traditional religions especially in Africa the supreme figure called God (Lesa for the Bemba and Chauta for the Chewa) express a common essence about cultures and religious beliefs, rites and rituals through symbolic manifestation within the culture. This kind of thought gives preference to emotion over reason, myth over practical investigation and rhythm over melody that transport their senses and belief from symbolic manifestation to spiritual realm of belief. African traditional religions, man finds no other possibility of existing without a religion as it is part of his nature.
Author Biography
Ryan L. Contamina, Graduate School Student
University of San Jose-Recoletos
is a graduate of Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Education at Surigao del Norte College of Agriculture and Technology in 2003. With his desire of reaching other people, he decided to join the Missionaries of Africa in the following year and he was sent for further studies Xavier University-Ateneo de Cagayan under the program Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy in 2004, and to the University of San Carlos, Cebu City in 2006. To further enrich his knowledge in Philosophy and with his willingness to involve in research, he continued his studies leading to Masters in Media Studies at the University of San Jose-Recoletos in 2008.It was in 2009 when he had his first hand exposure to the world when he was sent to Republic of Zambia in the continent of Africa. In 2010, he was again re-appointed to Republic of Malawi that gave him a wider perspective of the African world that inspired him to use his knowledge in Philosophy and mission. He then participated in educational awareness campaign and working with people who is suffering with HIV and AIDS especially among farmers and women groups in Republic of Malawi. He also facilitated and designed the ‘Bayanihan’ community agricultural projects and experimental farming activities that were adopted in selected villages in the province of Dedza, Malawi. He also joined the Catholic Agricultural Development Commission to uplift the life of the farmers of the said country. Believing in the power of the youth, he became a teacher and mentor of human development, agriculture, history and culture at Golomoti Secondary Day School inDedza, Malawi.While working with the farmers and mentoring the youth, he was exposed to their culture, belief, and farming activity that led him to publish his research entitled ‘Pastoral Ministry in Social Media’ and ‘Understanding of Plant Hybrid and Genetics’ which were both published in IMBISO, St. Joseph Theological Institute of Cedara, Pietermaritzburg, Republic of South Africa in 2013. Up to this date, his recent work entitled ‘Symbolism at the Heart of Bantu Traditional Religion’ a research conducted in Bantu people in Republic of Zambia, and Republic of Malawi is included in the Recoletos Journal for Commission on Higher Education 2013.
References
Bowie F, The Anthropology of Religion, U.S.A, Massachusetts: Blackwell Publishers, 2000.
Cassirer .E, The Philosophy of Symbolic Forms. (Vol 1), Translated by Ralph Manheim, New Haven and London: Yale University Press, 1968.
Claude Boucher Chisale WF, The Gospel Seed, Culture and Faith in Malawi as expressed in the Missio Banner,Balaka: Montfort Media, 2002.
Eric .O. Ayisi, An Introduction to the Study of African Culture (2nd Ed), Nairobi: East African Education Publishers, English Press Ltd. 1992.
Hick .J.H, Philosophy of Religion (2nd Ed), USA: Prentice Hall Inc, 1973.
Idowu .E,African Traditional Religion, ADefinition,London: SCM Press Ltd, 1974.
J.W.M Van Breugel, ChewaTraditional Religion. Blantyre: CLAIM, 2001.
Kanyike .E.M, The Principle of Participation in African Cosmology and Anthropology,Balaka: Montfort Media, 2003.
Kirwen .M.C, (Ed.), African Cultural Knowledge, Themes and Embedded Beliefs, Nairobi: Mary Knoll Institute of African Studies, 2005.
Mbiti S.J, African Religions and Philosophy, London: Heinemann, 1969.
Morris B, Anthropological Studies of Religion, An Introductory Text, U.K: Cambridge University Press, 1987.
Ochieng’-Odhiambo F, African Philosophy: An Introduction, (5th Ed), Nairobi: Consolata Institute of Philosophy Press, 2009.
Parrinder .E.G, African Traditional Religion (3rd Ed), Great Britain, Southampton: The Camelot Press Ltd, 1974.
Parrinder Geoffrey, Religion in Africa. London: Cox and Wyman Ltd. 1969
Ricoeur .P, The Symbolism of Evil, Boston: Beacon Press, 1969.
Stiver D.R, The Philosophy of Religious Language, Sign, Symbol and Story, U.S.A, Massachusetts: Blackwell Publishers, 1996.
Wehmeier .S, (ed.) Oxford Advanced Learners Dictionary International Students edition (7th Ed), Britain: Oxford University Press. 2010.
White Fathers, Bemba – English Dictionary, Ndola: Mission Press, 1991.
Downloads
full paper
Published
2013-12-31
How to Cite
Contamina, R. L. (2013). Symbolism at the Heart of Bantu Traditional Religion (Research conducted in Bantu Land of Republic of Zambia and Republic of Malawi). Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal, 1(2). https://doi.org/10.32871/rmrj1301.02.11
More Citation Formats
ACM
ACS
APA
ABNT
Chicago
Harvard
IEEE
MLA
Turabian
Vancouver
Download Citation
Endnote/Zotero/Mendeley (RIS)
BibTeX
Issue
Vol. 1 No. 2 (2013)
Section
Articles
License
Copyright of the Journal belongs to the University of San Jose-Recoletos
Similar Articles
Wilfred V. Rios,
Virgilio C. Lumayno Jr.,
Ma. Teresa T. Barola,
Joey S. Estorosos,
The Impact of Education on the Socioeconomic and Political Development of a Nation
,
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal: Vol. 1 No. 1 (2013)
You may also start an advanced similarity search for this article.
Information
For Readers
For Authors
For Librarians
Make a Submission
Make a Submission
Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal Copyright @2017
Center for Policy, Research, and Development Studies
Contact Number: 032-2537900 loc. 244
Email: recoletos_journal@usjr.edu.ph
Print ISSN: 2423-1398
Online ISSN: 2408-3755